1. J Affect Disord. 2013 May 15;148(1):1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.11.026. Epub 
2012 Dec 13.

Interventions to reduce stress in university students: a review and 
meta-analysis.

Regehr C(1), Glancy D, Pitts A.

Author information:
(1)Factor-Inwentash Faculty of Social Work Vice-Provost, Academic Programs, 
University of Toronto, 27 King's College Circle, Toronto, Canada M5S 1A1. 
Cheryl.regehr@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Recent research has revealed concerning rates of anxiety and 
depression among university students. Nevertheless, only a small percentage of 
these students receive treatment from university health services. Universities 
are thus challenged with instituting preventative programs that address student 
stress and reduce resultant anxiety and depression.
METHOD: A systematic review of the literature and meta-analysis was conducted to 
examine the effectiveness of interventions aimed at reducing stress in 
university students. Studies were eligible for inclusion if the assignment of 
study participants to experimental or control groups was by random allocation or 
parallel cohort design.
RESULTS: Retrieved studies represented a variety of intervention approaches with 
students in a broad range of programs and disciplines. Twenty-four studies, 
involving 1431 students were included in the meta-analysis. Cognitive, 
behavioral and mindfulness interventions were associated with decreased symptoms 
of anxiety. Secondary outcomes included lower levels of depression and cortisol.
LIMITATIONS: Included studies were limited to those published in peer reviewed 
journals. These studies over-represent interventions with female students in 
Western countries. Studies on some types of interventions such as 
psycho-educational and arts based interventions did not have sufficient data for 
inclusion in the meta-analysis.
CONCLUSION: This review provides evidence that cognitive, behavioral, and 
mindfulness interventions are effective in reducing stress in university 
students. Universities are encouraged to make such programs widely available to 
students. In addition however, future work should focus on developing stress 
reduction programs that attract male students and address their needs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.11.026
PMID: 23246209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]